# Setting up your system to compile Q OS

Since Q OS is primarily programmed in C on linux systems, it uses the popular <code>gcc</code> command to compile it. However, using the regular <code>gcc</code> command by itself will not work. To be able to compile Q OS properly, you will need a cross compiler specifically setup for Q OS.

## Instructions for Ubuntu 14.04

Installing the cross compiler toolchain for Q OS on Ubuntu 14.04 64 bit is technically (a lot) easier than doing so on Fedora 14.04. This is because Ubuntu comes pre-installed with the correct header files for 32 bit i686-elf compilers.

To install, simply download the script I wrote from [/dev/setup-ubuntu.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/raphydaphy/Q-OS/rewrite/dev/setup-ubuntu.sh) and place it in your $HOME directory in Ubuntu 14.04 64 bit Linux. Open a terminal window, type <code>cd $HOME</code> followed by <code>./setup-ubuntu.sh</code>. After around half an hour it should finish execution and you will be ready to start comopiling code for i686-elf machines, but you can change what you want to compile code for easily by editing [line 48](https://github.com/raphydaphy/Q-OS/blob/rewrite/dev/setup-ubuntu.sh#L48) of the <code>setup-ubuntu.sh</code> script and chainging the words <code>i686-elf</code> to whatever you want to build your code for.

If you have a slow computer, you will also need to change [line 14-16](https://github.com/raphydaphy/Q-OS/blob/rewrite/dev/setup-ubuntu.sh#L14-17) at the part where it says <code>-n 100</code> and change that on all three lines to a lower number such as <code>-n 10</code> or your computer might crash whilst running the script. Changing this number will change how fast the files download but will also affect the amount of strain it puts on your CPU.

## Instructions for Fedora 23

When I started to create a cross compiler toolchain specifically for compiling Q OS, I ended up spending more than fourty hours researching and compiling shell files to create the toolchain. Because of this, I decided to create a shell script that would automatically setup the correct developer environment for Q OS. You can find the script in the rewrite branch in [/dev/setup-fedora.sh](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/raphydaphy/Q-OS/rewrite/dev/setup-fedora.sh ). Download the script and open it in Fedora 23, 64 bit Workstation Edition. I recommend dual booting to run Fedora as it is a more stable experence for coding and developing but, although I haven't tested it, the script should work fine when running in a virtual machine.

Put the setup.sh script in your <code>/home/</code> directory in Fedora, in a sub folder called <code>src</code>. Make the directory by opening Terminal and entering the command <code>cd $HOME; sudo sh; mkdir src</code>. This will ensure that the <code>src</code> directory is owned by the <code>root</code> user on Fedora. If you accidently already created the folder as a non-root user, just enter terminal and enter the command <code>cd $HOME; sudo sh; chown root src;</code>. Next, open <code>setup.sh</code> in your favorite text editor, such as gedit or Kate (my favorite) and navigate to [line 7](https://github.com/raphydaphy/Q-OS/blob/rewrite/dev/setup-fedora.sh#L7). Change the home folder name from <code>$HOME</code> to whatever your username is in Fedora Linux. For example, if your username was <code>bob</code>, you would change it to <code>/home/bob</code>. You can check what is is by opening a new window in Terminal, entering <code>cd $HOME</code> then entering <code>cd ..</code>, and finally, <code>ls</code> and your home folder name will be displayed as one of the folders in the listing. 

Whilst you are looking at the shell file in your text editor, you can customise it to install or not install packages that you like or dont like, but only do this if you know what you are doing because writing the wrong commands can either force you to restart a process which is well over an hour long or even worse it could format your computers hard drive which results in your files being deleted.

Once you have completed all the above steps, open a new Terminal window, navigate to the directory you put the <code>setup.sh</code> script in, which if you followed this file exactly should be at <code>$HOME/src/setup-fedora.sh</code> and simply run the <code>setup.sh</code> script by entering <code>sudo ./setup0fedora.sh</code>. The <code>sudo</code> prefix is not technically required but it is safest to include it anyway since the <code>setup-fedora.sh</code> script takes over an hour to finish execution on an average speed computer.
